# Cyber Threats to Watch in 2020

Throughout 2019, ransomware was the biggest threat and its likely the trend will continue in the coming year. Within the first half of the year, Forbes reported a 52% increase in cyber threats from the 2018's first half. The report yielded 3,800 publicly disclosed breaches which did cut across all sectors, from entertainment, finance, healthcare, and even states. The same trend is expected to go on. However, organizations and other institutions should be enlightened on what to look for. Because of the ever-evolving Cybersecurity environment, the tactics should focus more on the new sectors and technologies. Below is a brief look into the major Cybersecurity threats that companies should look out for in 2020 and a look into why penetration tests should be part of an organization's security policy.
### Emerging Technologies 
Cybersecurity threats in 2020 are likely to take advantage of the superfluity of emerging technologies. Innovative technologies like Machine Learning which is on the rise, 5G and Artificial Intelligence are likely to impact and shape the Cybersecurity landscape both negatively and positively.  For instance, more people are adopting AI in their business and other day-to-day business operations as it reduces workload and cuts on several operational costs. At the same time, the wide adoption of the technology implies that more Cybersecurity threats will emerge as blind spots are created by algorithmic biases.  
Similarly, the adoption of a 5G network will lead to new Cybersecurity threats. the attack surface is bound to increase accordingly with the rate of adoption of 5G.  Higher bandwidth will enable black-hats to launch stronger attacks of higher magnitudes over a wider cyber environment. 2020 will see an increase in cyber-attacks since 5G is a conversation to a network composed purely of software. This will call for a reassessment of the current security methods in place to counter the various vulnerabilities that are prone to software.

### Cloud Storage
In an attempt to minimize Cybersecurity threats, most companies shifted their valuable information to the Cloud in 2019 with an assumption that they would be safer at the cloud. However, safety for your data is not guaranteed by changing the storage location to Cloud and it is not safer in any manner. Last year, 2019, saw one of the largest breaches ever, the Capital One Breach. The breach was orchestrated by a black-hat hacker who infiltrated the servers of a third-party cloud computing that stored data for Capital One. The breach led the exposure of about 106 million confidential records and therefore it cannot be treated as an isolated incident.   
2020 will see cloud jacking becoming a more prominent cyber threat than anticipated due to the increased use of cloud by most organizations.  As technology evolves, cloud security infrastructure becomes more complex likewise to the nature of attacks. Most companies are expected to consider the security aspect as the primary factor while choosing which third-party Cloud service organization to for.
### Internet of Things (IoT)
A recent report by Fortune business indicated that the Internet of Things market will hit $1.1 trillion by 2026. Most people already own smart devices and they are aware of their functionality.  The technology is going to be huge soon, with some companies such as Google giving free Google Home Minis. With so many devices connected due to the widespread implementation of IoT devices, cyber threats will usher in a large amount.  
Most of the new IoT devices will, in most cases, be in their infancy as the majority of companies will be rushing to roll them out as quickly as possible. Risks and vulnerabilities associated with these new technologies in their early stages only widen the attack surface. Security experts cannot competently develop new strategies to counter vulnerabilities in all the new devices. Everything in an IoT environment, not just phones, but virtually every device will be considered “intelligent” or smart. All devices in your vicinity, from baby changing pads and blenders to the washing machine and Brita filters, will be connected to software and applications, hence rendering them vulnerable to cyber-threats.
### Deepfakes 
Deep fakes are human image synthesis or artificial renderings of human beings. This technology becomes common to the public in 2017. The term deepfakes was coined by Reddit. The technology was widely exploited in swapping mainstream media actresses' faces onto pornographic actresses’ bodies.  It has since grown and continues to be distributed as it has become an easier task to carry out even much easier than performing a Photoshop. This is because the software elementally relies on Machine Learning rather than manual design skills. 
Deepfakes can be used maliciously by black hats and soon it will be on hell of a threat to Cybersecurity. The technology can be used to commit high magnitude frauds through synthetic identities or possibly to influence the 2020 elections among many other possibilities. It is therefore advisable for every organization, individual or even state agents to maintain a healthy skepticism in the face of fabricated videos. 2020 will see companies and large corporations lose a lot of money, as phishing attempts will be more convincing than before the emergence of deepfakes.  
### Phishing Attacks
This is the bread and butter of Cybersecurity threats. With the increased number of loopholes and vulnerabilities in the cyber environment, cybercriminals are likely to take advantage and launch phishing attacks on various platforms as per their interests or motive. In 2019, various schools and places fell victim to spear-phishing attacks.
Phishing attacks may seem to be an old Cybersecurity threat, but it will crouch into 2020 due to its sheer effectiveness. A report by Data Breach Digest in 2018, indicated that approximately 90% of data loss incidents are usually due to phishing or social engineering. Remember it only takes the effort of a single employee clicking a phony leak to expose the entire organization to cyber-attack. 

## Need for Penetration Testing (Pentesting)
With cyber-attacks becoming the order of the day, it is more significant than ever before to perform a regular vulnerability scan and penetration testing to spot vulnerabilities and ensure that the set cyber controls are efficiently working. 
Organizations, therefore, need to conduct regular testing of their systems for the following key reasons;
* To determine security loopholes in the hardware or infrastructure, weakness in software and possible inner threats by employees.
* To ensure controls have been properly implemented and are effective.
* To discover bugs lying undetected in software. As much as updates and patches are developed to fix vulnerabilities, some of them may as well introduce new vulnerabilities. 
* To test applications that are prone to attacks. Do not forget that applications are developed by human beings who make mistake despite all the laid measures and standards or codes of practice.    

## Conclusion
2020 Cybersecurity threats are going to be weird, intense and extremely challenging to contain. Data breaches do not seem to end or slow down anytime soon. The situation will require a corporation of both skilled personnel and individuals with average know-how on basic cyber hygiene. Security personnel will have to use proactive strategies and not reactive to prevent attack other than compensating for the costly losses. However, as an average reader who is reading this article, you will have to play your part in an attempt to identify phishing attempts by cybercriminals. Also, ensure that you implement multi-factor authentication and strong password for your online niche and as well, hold companies responsible when your data has been mishandled. 
Additionally, penetration testing should be a regular exercise done by every organization with an aim of detecting, recently discovered or previously unknown vulnerabilities.  The frequency and intensity of the test depend on the nature of the test to be performed and the aim of carrying out that test.

[Home](./)